# `cilpy`
The Compuational Intelligence Library for Python (`cilpy`) is a computational
intelligence library written in Python to ease the process of conducting
experiments on nature-inspired algorithms (NIAs) for constrained optimization
problems and multi-objective optimization problems.

The `cilpy` library consists of three components:
 1. A problem generation component (`cilpy.problem`)
 2. A problem solving component (`cilpy.solver`)
 3. A solution comparison component (`cilpy.compare`)

If a user implements the interface defined for each of these components, `cilpy`
can run an experiment, saving effort in studying NIAs.

## `cilpy` components
### `cilpy.problem`
The `cilpy.problem` component is used to generate optimization problems for the
`cilpy.solver` and `cilpy.compare` components.

Currently (2025) `cilpy` should allow for the creation of:
 * Constrained Optimization Problems (COPs)
 * Multi-Objective Optimization Problems (MOOPs)

#### Constrained Optimization Problems
There are many ways in which constrained optimization problems (COPs) can be
categorized, but for now `cilpy.problem` categorizes COPs by whether constraints
are static or dynamic, and whether the objective function is static or dynamic.
Thus the following problem categories exist:
 * static constrained static optimization problems (SCSO),
 * static constrained dynamic optimization problems (SCDO),
 * dynamic constrained static optimization problems (DCSO), and
 * dynamic constrained dynamic optimization problems (DCDO).

#### Multi-Objective Optimization Problems
TODO

### `cilpy.solver`
The `cilpy.solver` component is used to solve optimization problems generated by
`cilpy.problem`, and produces output so that `cilpy.compare` can compare
different algorithms.

### `cilpy.compare`
The `cilpy.compare` component is used to compare algorithms defined by
`cilpy.solver` on problems generated by `cilpy.problem`.

#### Comparing solutions
Initially, the library will rely on
[other tools](https://github.com/yesteryearer/Automated-Analysis-of-Metaheuristics)
to compare solutions.

## Using `cilpy`
To use `cilpy`, construct a problem that implements the `cilpy/probem`
interface, construct an optimizer/solver that implements the `cilpy/solver`
interface, create a runner instance, and run the runner. Below is a pseudocode
example:
```python
from cilpy.problem import some_problem
from cilpy.solver import some_solver
from cilpy.runner import Runner

if __name__ == '__main__':
    # --- Configure the problem instance ---
    my_problem = some_problem.SomeProblemClass(
        dimension=2
        # Other parameters
    )

    MAX_ITERATIONS = 5000

    # --- Configure the solver ---
    solver_params = {
        'population_size': 30,
        'max_iterations': MAX_ITERATIONS
        # Other parameters
    }

    # --- Configure and run the experiment ---
    runner = Runner(
        problem=my_problem,
        solver_class=some_solver.SomeSolverClass,
        solver_params=solver_params,
        max_iterations=MAX_ITERATIONS,
        change_frequency=my_problem._change_frequency, # Pass freq to runner
        output_filepath="results.csv"
    )

    runner.run()
```